>> Josh Long: So thymeleaf is one of
a half a dozen different supported
server-side templating technologies.
I'm going to create a server
side template here called Users.
I'm gonna paste all this in there,
right, so I've just got this.
I'm not going to write JavaScript for
you live on stage because
I respect you too much.
But basically it's just there,
It's a table, ID name, username,
street, blah, blah, blah.
So for each user in the attribute
variable called users in the model,
render this table cell,
and then that's it.
Okay, so now we go back to our code here.
I'll create an MVC user
class MVC controller.
And notice that I don't have
ResponseBody here, right?
ResponseBody tells
Spring MVC to not interpret
the return value of one of these
methods as the name of a view.
So normally if I return a string from
one of these controller handler methods,
that tells Spring MVC to look
up a view by a convention.
So it'll look up users by source
main resources, blah HTML.
So this'll get turned into,
behind the scenes,
there's something called a ViewResolver.
Src/main/resources/templates +
BLAH + .html, okay, there you go.
So this is the convention and
if you don't have response body,
then Spring MVC is going to be looking for
a view name.
So when you do the response body, it tells
Spring, okay, I might have some other
intent for this response that's coming
from this controller handler method.
And then usually that's just the object to
be rendered into JSON or XML or whatever.
So what about the data?
So I'm going to inject a model,
okay, there we go.
Import the class, here we go,
and I'll say model.addAttributes,
users, and
I'm gonna use the declarative client.
One of the nice things I love about
IntelliJ is that it has this feature where
I can do this.
I can say declarative users, client users.
See how that automatically added
that constructor for me and
the dependency injected type and all that.
So, Is that gonna work?
It goes in the templates folder.
The IDE tried to warn me,
but I didn't listen.
Okay, so there you go,
simple static server side stuff.
I know most of us are doing client
side stuff, but this is still here.
And I did a whole livestream with
the person who created htmx a month ago or
two.
You can actually use this
server side template support.
Plus there's good support for
rendering fragments in Spring.
So if I want to send two out of
band HTML bodies or chunks and
have them replace different
islands at the same time.
You can do that with HTML spring mvc.
You can actually return a collection.
Instead of a string, you return
a collection of model and view or
a collection of.
I think you can do a collection
of string as well, but
multiple views will get
rendered at the same time.